- [Instructor] Now, let's take a look at the
Managed Scheduled Executor Service Demo
that we will look at here.
Let's look at its overview.
So, by now we know that
Managed Scheduled Executor Service
is an extension to the standard platform's
Scheduled Executor Service
and we know its objective.
It's basically going to provide you methods
to submit jobs, submit tasks,
which occur at regular intervals
or with definite days.
And this particular resource,
Managed Scheduled Executor Service,
that can be obtained through the container,
again, using the JNDI look up
or the resource annotation.
Okay, so now let's understand
what we're going to do as a part of the demo.
The use case is health check for the application.
So, when you say managed scheduled,
as the name suggests,
it's kind of a scheduling job that you want to run.
So, we are going to make sure that
this job that we're going to run
is going to check the health of the application.
So, let's say I have a URL off my application
and I just want to hit that URL
and make sure that it is up and running.
That's all that I'm checking.
And this has to happen periodically
because in cases where it is down,
then I need to take appropriate action.
Okay, so very simple use case,
but we are going to do this.
So, how are we going to do that,
we're going to use java.net APIs.
Very simple code
where we will feed the URL to these APIs
and ask it to connect to that particular website
and check whether it's up and running.
So, we'll use the java.net APIs,
send a request to the application's URL
and check whether it is running or not.
So, how are we going to structure this code?
That is, of course, this one class,
which is the runnable implementation,
which is going to check the health of the application.
So, all the logic
that you're going to write using java.net APIs
will come inside this implementation
and then we'll have the rest class,
the rest will be,
which is going to extract the
Managed Scheduled Executor Service object
from the container alignment
using either JNDI or resource annotation
and it is going to help us schedule
this health check job periodically.
So, this task is going to execute at regular intervals
or maybe with fixed days.
So, this loop that is indicated in the diagram
represents that it is a periodic operation,
which is going to happen at regular intervals
and that's why it has been shown in a loop.
So, we'll look at this demo in the next video.